
New routing architecture: dynamic authority based routing.

Can everything be automated and in the cloud?

How to determine when and if there is a new version?

What kinds of data?

1. Ingress host route
2. Ingress authorities with a definition of Primary or Secondary. So routing can default to the
   primary authority.

3. Egress routes
4. Egress authorities
3. Egress routing policy











// Host and primary configuration are as follows:
	// Primary - route to host unless upstream failure rate exceeds a threshold, then route to secondaries
	//           based on filters. If not filters are configured then stay on primary. Once the rate falls
	//           below the threshold, fail back to the host
	// Default - route to host on startup, then rely on secondaries for all routing. Without secondary
	//           filters, then remain on host.
	//

When a new host starts up then the host should send the configuration.
  1. Trigger a host startup message so that the existing Egress controller can update the
     routing information.


Conversion strategies:
 1. Major version change
     - Manual execution
     - Requires new host version
 2. Minor version change
     - Manual or automatic
     - New host version ?
 3. Patch version change
     - Manual or automatic.


 Without guidance, then conversion is attempted at a time when the service is off-peak.
 Guidance can be used to change when a conversion is run.

 How to know when a version changes??
 How to determine a version based on the route's version mask?
 ? Can we use the host authority version information??

 If we use the startup host as the current version

 CANT BE DONE, rely on the ecosystem. Need resiliency when connecting to cloud

 // Host and primary configuration are as follows:
 	// Primary - route to host unless upstream failure rate exceeds a threshold, then route to secondaries
 	//           based on filters. If no filters are configured then stay on primary. Once the rate falls
 	//           below the threshold, fail back to the host
 	// Default - route to host on startup, then rely on secondaries for all routing. Without secondary
 	//           filters, remain on host.
 	//
 	Host    string `json:"host"`
 	Primary bool   `json:"primary"`


B. When authority URL's are used.
   1. Ingress controllers
      a. Need a list of ingress authorities to publish.
         - One timeout override for ingress host controller
         - Need the authority/module version
   2. Egress controllers
      a. Need a list of egress authorities
         - Route Name
         - Optional timeout
         - Optional disabling RateLimiting - rate limiting is good for transient latencies
         - Need the authority/module version
         - Include egress origins by Region, Zone, SubZone, Host
         - Exclude egress origins.
         - Need an optional timespan so that the origins can be tested during off hours.
           Can this be configured dynamically??


A controller policy needs the following:
 1. Some way to create a complete URL given an incoming request
    a. If the request contains a authority, then it should b automatic

 2. Timeout - optional as this defaults to 3 seconds

 3. RateLimiting - only disabling is allowed as rate limiting is enabled by default with the
                   rate limit and rate burst configured dynamically. The threshold to start
                   rate limiting is also determined dynamically based on experience
 4. Policy - controls how a host is selected
    a. Need the ability to limit possible hosts
       - Limit by Region, Zone, SubZone, Host




C. How to remove an authority? - USE VERSIONING
   1. Suddenly disappears, egress controller needs to react.
   2. Permanently, need to be guidance set by a user

D. How to handle versioning??
   1. Can we use existing module versioning? YES
      - This would have to be in the meta-data of what you have and what you need.
      - Need to allow for a version mask, so that you can support semantic versioning
   2. Append a version number to the authority.
      - How would this scheme correlate to an exact module version?


Rethinking all of this:

With Host routing:
 - host name is configured in the route config
 - startup and failover would use the same scoping rules for host selection.

Let's separate the cases for host based routing:
  1. Startup - Let client set host URL.
      a. Advantages - client is in best position to know which host to choose, even if we have dynamic
                      routing, there is usually a primary host for a given authority.
                    - Can run even if cloud is not available.
      b. Disadvantages - would need to initialize cloud on startup for failover functionality

  2. Failover - cloud configuration would need a scope and threshold to work.
      a. Advantages - no scope would mean no failover
      b. Disadvantages - failover hosts may be limited??

  3. Conversion - relying on current conversion procedures.
      a. Advantages - can be accomplished without change clients.
      b. Disadvantages - painful


Let's separate the cases for authority based routing:
  1. Startup - Let client set host URL.
      a. Advantages - client is in best position to know which host to choose, even if we have dynamic
                      routing, there is usually a primary host for a given authority.
                    - Can run even if cloud is not available.
      b. Disadvantages - would need to initialize cloud on startup for failover functionality

  2. Failover - cloud configuration would need a scope and threshold to work.
      a. Advantages - no scope would mean no failover
      b. Disadvantages - failover hosts may be limited??

  3. Conversion - relying on current conversion procedures.
      a. Advantages - can be accomplished without change clients.
      b. Disadvantages - painful
      c. Can we use redirects?? If the redirect is permanent, how can a client update there
         cache.
            - To use redirects, then the host configuration needs to be in the cloud